I mentioned before
that one of the goals
of this lesson in this
week is really to show you,
in great detail, the
streams-based, functional
programming-based
implementation of the sequential
SearchStreamGang program.
But before we do that, I'm
going to take a little detour
and start by talking about an
object-oriented implementation.
And the reason for doing this
is to provide a nice baseline
for comparison to see why
the Streams version is
a win relative to doing things
in a more conventional way.
The other thing I'm
going to show here
is what are some
of the limitations
with classic
object-oriented programming?
Just to be totally
upfront, I've been
an object-oriented programmer
since the mid-1980s,
so we're talking about,
gosh, 35 years or so
of object-oriented programming.
So I don't look at
object-oriented programming
with any disdain.
It's just that there
are certain things that
are cumbersome to do with
object-oriented approaches
that functional programming
in streams makes very simple.
And so I think we have
to be upfront about what
we get that's good, and what we
get that's bad from any given
paradigm.
So here is the
object-oriented implementation
of the processStream method.
And what this does
is it sequentially
searches for phrases in
a list of input strings--
which, of course, contain
the works of Shakespeare.
Now, just to make things
easy, I called this method
processStream because it
fits in with the framework,
but of course, this isn't
actually a stream at all.
So that's just there to not
have to rewrite everything
and change the names of things.
Here's what we do.
We start by creating a list of
lists of search results, which
will be used to store the
results of the processing we're
about to see.
And a search result--
which we've talked
about before--
is a data structure
that contains
the string we're
searching in, the word
we're searching for, and
basically the number of times
and the locations where that
word appears in the string.
So it's what we use to
get the results back
so we can do
something with them,
like print them in a
nice, formatted way.
You have to remember
to initialize
this listOfListOfResults
with a call to new ArrayList,
otherwise chaos and
insanity will result.
So this is a common mistake--
very common mistake--
when programming with
object-oriented Java.
I can't tell you
the number of times
I've done that over my life.
But it gets even harder
now that I'm primarily
programming with
streams, because I always
forget I have to do it,
and it's just annoying.
The next thing we do is
we use external iteration
to explicitly loop through
all the works of Shakespeare.
So we're going to go through
the works of Shakespeare one
at a time.
And the way we do this is
by a method called getInput.
This is defined in the inner
workings of the StreamGang
framework.
It just is used to get
the input from somewhere--
which could be from a file.
It could be from
the command line.
It could be from a
pre-compiled list of arrays.
It could be from the network--
wherever you get the
works of Shakespeare from,
you can get it from there.
We actually read these things in
as character sequences, not as
strings.
And the reason for
this is that there
is some overhead of using substr
to get a subset of a string,
and that overhead does not
exist when using subSequence
on a CharSequence.
So we end up using CharSequences
in a lot of places,
just to avoid that overhead.
It makes some things run faster.
The performance
improvement won't be
quite so obvious at the moment.
When we talk about our parallel
spliterator implementation
in the future, it'll
become really clear
why it's a win to use
character sequences.
So for every input
sequence-- which, of course,
is every work of Shakespeare--
we're going to go ahead
and call the
processInput method--
which we'll look at the moment--
passing in the work
of Shakespeare.
And that will go
ahead and return
a list of search
results, and we will then
go ahead and add that
list of search results
to this listOfListOfResults
results.
And that's because
processInput returns
a list of search results--
one list for each input string.
So for each input string,
we'll get back a list of all
the places-- if any--
where the phrase phrases
we're searching for
may have appeared in
the input strings.
Now, once again, if
listOfListOfResults is not
initialized properly
up top, then
chaos and insanity will
result. Very common mistake
to make with Java--
object-oriented Java code.
And the last thing we
do here is we basically
return the listOfListOfResults
as the return
value from processStream.
And what this does
is it indicates
how many times a search phrase
appeared in each input string--
each work of Shakespeare.
So that was processStream.
Now let's go ahead and take
a look at processInput.
As you saw, processStream
called processInput,
processInput will be
used to search the input
stream for all the occurrences
of the phrases we're
trying to find.
So in this case, the input
is a character sequence.
That's the particular
work of Shakespeare
that we're looking at.
And the first thing
we do is we go ahead
and we split the
input up into parts.
So we get the title,
which is always
the first part of
the input sequence,
and then we get,
basically, the content,
which is everything else.
And this is yet
another reason why
we use our input
as CharSequences
as opposed to strings,
because subSequence
works so much more efficiently.
You can take a look
at this clever class
I wrote called
SharedString which
basically wraps a
string-like facade over top
of CharSequence.
So it just makes things
work a little cleaner.
The next thing we do is we go
ahead and create an empty list
to store the results.
Once again, if we
fail to initialize
this list with ArrayList chaos
and insanity will result.
So I think you're hopefully
seeing a recurring
theme here in the
object-oriented solution.
We got to remember to do
these initializations,
otherwise bad things happen.
Once again, we use
external iteration
to explicitly loop
through all the phrases
that we're going to use to
search in the input stream--
input string.
And we then go ahead and call
the searchForPhrase method,
passing in the phrase we're
looking for, the input
sequence-- input string--
and the title.
Now, if we get back a
search results object that
has a size greater
than 0, that means
we've found some matches--
in which case we go
ahead and add that
to the list of results.
If we don't find any matches,
we don't provide any update
to the list results.
We don't put empty
results in here.
Once, again you'll notice
that we have loops.
We have if statements.
You have to kind of
look at this code
carefully and realize
it's iterating and doing
conditional checks and so on.
In general, control constructs
make it a little bit harder
to read code linearly
from top to bottom.
You have to kind of
play the runtime system
and know, oh, at the end
of the loop, it loops back,
and if does this
rather than that.
For simple code
like this, probably
not that big of a deal.
You start getting
any kind of nesting,
things get out of
control very quickly,
and turns out that that streams,
and the intermediate operations
like filter and map, are often
much cleaner and more legible,
more coherent, to read.
And the final
thing we do here is
we return the list
of search results
back to processStream,
which will then go ahead
and add it to its list of
list of search results.
Let's now go ahead
and take a look
at the object-oriented
implementation
for the searchForPhrase method.
This implementation uses
a regular expression
to find phrases in
an input string.
So it's going to take
a phrase and an input
string and a title.
The first thing we
have to do always
is explicitly create
the list here--
using ArrayList to avoid
chaos and insanity.
We then go ahead and create a
regular expression, which does
some really powerful things.
I'm not going to walk
through this in gory detail,
but basically what it's
doing is it's collapsing
any extraneous whitespace
between the search phrase
we're looking for, and it also
quotes any and all question
marks--
because those would be
treated in funny ways.
So this is basically just
stripping the phrase down
so we can use it as
a regular expression.
Then we compile this
regular expression
in a way that will
be case-insensitive,
and will also span
across new lines.
That's what the .all flag means.
Case-insensitive just means
uppercase and lowercase
are irrelevant.
And then the last thing we do
is we create a pattern matcher
by taking the input string--
the work of Shakespeare--
and connecting it
to the regular
expression pattern.
And that creates a matcher.
And now, while we have actually
found anything in the matcher,
we're going to loop
through the input,
and any time we find something--
any time that returns true,
or as long as it
keeps returning true--
we will go ahead and
create a new result object
to indicate where
the match started,
what index it started
in the input--
in the work of Shakespeare-- and
that gets added to the results.
And you can see that the
results, in this case,
is this list of search results.
And then when we're done, we
can go ahead and make ourselves
a new search results object that
passes in the current thread
ID, the phrase, the
title, and the results
object that we see here.
So these are
basically the things
that we passed in order
to create a search result.
That's what gets returned
from searchForPhrase.